= ruby-d2l

Extremely limited functionality so far.  At this point it's just a proof of concept.  Only a few SOAP calls are implemented at the moment.


This hopefully will eventually provide a much easier way to access the Web Services SOAP interface in Desire2Learn.  This code should work with D2L versions 9.4.1 and prior.  As of D2L version 9.4.1, a new REST based interface is available.  This may be re-written to support REST when I get access to a 9.4.1 test system.

I don't like that I'm having to build all the XML into this gem instead of just using the builtin stuff from Savon.  If anyone figures out how to make that work let me know.

== Installation

gem install ruby-d2l


== Configuration

Create a user in your Desire2Learn instance for web services.  It should have administrator privileges.

Then in your Ruby application you can use the configure block to set these values...

    RubyD2L.configure do |config|
      config.username = "D2L_WEB_SERVICES_USERNAME"
      config.password = "D2L_WEB_SERVICES_PASSWORD"
      config.site_url = "D2L_INSTANCE_URL"   # (e.g. https://d2l.mysite.edu)
	  config.soap_logging = true   # defaults to FALSE unless set
    end

== Documentation

Code Example:

    template =  RubyD2L::OrgUnit.get_course_template_by_code(:template_code => "TEMPLATE_CODE")
    # using awesome_print gem
	ap template 
	


== Contributing to ruby-d2l
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Matt Mencel. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

